{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f0 Calibri;}{\f1 Consolas;}}
\fs22
\b PDF Converter Quickstart Handout\b0\par
\par
\b Audience\b0\par
Academic support professionals with strong technical skills who need a reliable local PDF conversion workflow.\par
\par
\b What this app does\b0\par
Converts PDFs into multiple output formats (interactive HTML, highlighted HTML, canvas HTML, text, CSV, H5P, images) using a local browser dashboard.\par
\par
\b 1) Install Node.js (LTS)\b0\par
1. Go to https://nodejs.org and install the current LTS release.\par
2. Re-open terminal and verify:\par
{\f1 node -v\par
npm -v\par}
\f0\par
\b 2) Install PDF Converter\b0\par
\b Preferred (global install):\b0\par
{\f1 npm install -g @j.hughes.cu/pdf-converter\par}
\f0\par
\b 3) Start and use\b0\par
Start app:\par
{\f1 pdf-converter\par}
\f0\par
Open dashboard:\par
{\f1 http://localhost:3000\par}
\f0\par
Workflow:\par
\'95 Add PDFs to \f1 input/\f0  (or use upload button).\par
\'95 Choose output formats in dashboard.\par
\'95 Click \b Start Processing\b0 .\par
\'95 Find results in \f1 output/<pdf-name>/\f0 .\par
\par
\b 4) If port 3000 is blocked (most common startup issue)\b0\par
Symptoms: startup says port 3000 is already in use.\par
\par
Fix:\par
{\f1 portclear\par
pdf-converter\par}
\f0\par
\b Important:\b0  \f1 portclear\f0  terminates process(es) listening on that port. Use with care if another app is using port 3000 intentionally.\par
\par
You can target a different port to clear:\par
{\f1 portclear 3001\par}
\f0\par
\b 5) Quick command reference\b0\par
{\f1
# Start app\par
pdf-converter\par
\par
# Clear blocked default port\par
portclear\par
\par
# Clear a specific port\par
portclear 3000\par
}
\f0\par
\b Supporting technology (high-level)\b0\par
Node.js local server, browser dashboard UI, PDF parsing libraries, and local filesystem-based input/output folders.\par
\par
\i For complete setup and operational guidance, see USER_GUIDE.md in this repository.\i0\par
}
